1984phrase generally used—had overheard some compromising remark and denounced its parents to the Thought Police.The sting of the catapult bullet had worn off. He picked up his pen half-heartedly, wondering whether he could find something  more  to  write  in  the  diary.  Suddenly  he  began thinking of O’Brien again.Years ago—how long was it? Seven years it must be—he had  dreamed  that  he  was  walking  through  a  pitch-dark room. And someone sitting to one side of him had said as he  passed:  ‘We  shall  meet  in  the  place  where  there  is  no darkness.’ It was said very quietly, almost casually—a state-ment, not a command. He had walked on without pausing. What  was  curious  was  that  at  the  time,  in  the  dream,  the words had not made much impression on him. It was only later and by degrees that they had seemed to take on signifi-cance. He could not now remember whether it was before or after having the dream that he had seen O’Brien for the first time, nor could he remember when he had first identi-fied the voice as O’Brien’s. But at any rate the identification existed.  It  was  O’Brien  who  had  spoken  to  him  out  of  the dark.Winston had never been able to feel sure—even after this morning’s flash of the eyes it was still impossible to be sure whether O’Brien was a friend or an enemy. Nor did it even seem to matter greatly. There was a link of understanding between  them,  more  important  than  affection  or  partisan-ship. ‘We shall meet in the place where there is no darkness,’ he had said. Winston did not know what it meant, only that in some way or another it would come true.
Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comThe  voice  from  the  telescreen  paused.  A  trumpet  call, clear and beautiful, floated into the stagnant air. The voice continued raspingly:’Attention! Your attention, please! A newsflash has this moment arrived from the Malabar front. Our forces in South India have won a glorious victory. I am authorized to say that the action we are now reporting may well bring the war within measurable distance of its end. Here is the newsflash——’Bad  news  coming,  thought  Winston.  And  sure  enough, following  on  a  gory  description  of  the  annihilation  of  a Eurasian  army,  with  stupendous  figures  of  killed  and  pris-oners, came the announcement that, as from next week, the chocolate ration would be reduced from thirty grammes to twenty.Winston belched again. The gin was wearing off, leaving a deflated feeling. The telescreen—perhaps to celebrate the victory, perhaps to drown the memory of the lost chocolate—crashed into ‘Oceania, ‘tis for thee’. You were supposed to stand to attention. However, in his present position he was invisible.‘Oceania,  ‘tis  for  thee’  gave  way  to  lighter  music.  Win-ston  walked  over  to  the  window,  keeping  his  back  to  the telescreen. The day was still cold and clear. Somewhere far away  a  rocket  bomb  exploded  with  a  dull,  reverberating roar. About twenty or thirty of them a week were falling on London at present.
19844Down  in  the  street  the  wind  flapped  the  torn  poster  to and  fro,  and  the  word  INGSOC  fitfully  appeared  and  van-ished.  Ingsoc.  The  sacred  principles  of  Ingsoc.  Newspeak, doublethink,  the  mutability  of  the  past.  He  felt  as  though he were wandering in the forests of the sea bottom, lost in a  monstrous  world  where  he  himself  was  the  monster.  He was alone. The past was dead, the future was unimaginable. What  certainty  had  he  that  a  single  human  creature  now living was on his side? And what way of knowing that the dominion of the Party would not endure FOR EVER? Like an answer, the three slogans on the white face of the Minis-try of Truth came back to him:WAR IS PEACE FREEDOM IS SLAVERY IGNORANCE IS STRENGTHHe took a twenty-five cent piece out of his pocket. There, too, in tiny clear lettering, the same slogans were inscribed, and  on  the  other  face  of  the  coin  the  head  of  Big  Broth-er. Even from the coin the eyes pursued you. On coins, on stamps, on the covers of books, on banners, on posters, and on  the  wrappings  of  a  cigarette  packet—everywhere.  Al-ways  the  eyes  watching  you  and  the  voice  enveloping  you. Asleep or awake, working or eating, indoors or out of doors, in the bath or in bed—no escape. Nothing was your own ex-cept the few cubic centimetres inside your skull.The sun had shifted round, and the myriad windows of the Ministry of Truth, with the light no longer shining on 
Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comthem, looked grim as the loopholes of a fortress. His heart quailed  before  the  enormous  pyramidal  shape.  It  was  too strong, it could not be stormed. A thousand rocket bombs would not batter it down. He wondered again for whom he was  writing  the  diary.  For  the  future,  for  the  past—for  an age that might be imaginary. And in front of him there lay not  death  but  annihilation.  The  diary  would  be  reduced to  ashes  and  himself  to  vapour.  Only  the  Thought  Police would read what he had written, before they wiped it out of existence and out of memory. How could you make appeal to  the  future  when  not  a  trace  of  you,  not  even  an  anony-mous  word  scribbled  on  a  piece  of  paper,  could  physically survive?The telescreen struck fourteen. He must leave in ten min-utes. He had to be back at work by fourteen-thirty.Curiously,  the  chiming  of  the  hour  seemed  to  have  put new heart into him. He was a lonely ghost uttering a truth that  nobody  would  ever  hear.  But  so  long  as  he  uttered  it, in some obscure way the continuity was not broken. It was not by making yourself heard but by staying sane that you carried  on  the  human  heritage.  He  went  back  to  the  table, dipped his pen, and wrote:To the future or to the past, to a time when thought is free, when men are different from one another and do not live alone—to a time when truth exists and what is done cannot be undone: From the age of uniformity, from the age of solitude, from the age of Big Brother, from the age of doublethink—greetings!
1984He was already dead, he reflected. It seemed to him that it was only now, when he had begun to be able to formulate his thoughts, that he had taken the decisive step. The conse-quences of every act are included in the act itself. He wrote:Thoughtcrime does not entail death: thoughtcrime IS death.Now he had recognized himself as a dead man it became important to stay alive as long as possible. Two fingers of his right hand were inkstained. It was exactly the kind of detail that might betray you. Some nosing zealot in the Ministry (a  woman,  probably:  someone  like  the  little  sandy-haired woman  or  the  dark-haired  girl  from  the  Fiction  Depart-ment)  might  start  wondering  why  he  had  been  writing during  the  lunch  interval,  why  he  had  used  an  old-fash-ioned  pen,  WHAT  he  had  been  writing—and  then  drop  a hint  in  the  appropriate  quarter.  He  went  to  the  bathroom and  carefully  scrubbed  the  ink  away  with  the  gritty  dark-brown soap which rasped your skin like sandpaper and was therefore well adapted for this purpose.He put the diary away in the drawer. It was quite useless to think of hiding it, but he could at least make sure whether or not its existence had been discovered. A hair laid across the page-ends was too obvious. With the tip of his finger he picked  up  an  identifiable  grain  of  whitish  dust  and  depos-ited it on the corner of the cover, where it was bound to be shaken off if the book was moved.
